As you probably already know, Cypher is
the scripting language used in Neo4j and
it's what we have been using
already in the previous lectures.
In this lecture, we're going to go through
a series of basic queries using Cypher
with the focus on the data sets
that we've already been using.
Here's a listing of the basic queries
we will go through step by step.
So let's get started.
To keep things simple we will be using a
text file containing the basic queries and
we'll make this file available for
download as a reading in the module.
I will briefly review the queries and
then we'll toggle to the browser to view
the results of the queries in Neo4j.
Neo4j has a very nice feature which
allows us to retain individual queries
in multiple panels as we're going through
the process of exploring each query.
So for the first few queries we'll be
using the simple road network data set
that we used in previous demonstrations.
And here we've already loaded
the data set into Neo4j.
So let's look at our first query.
Our first query is a very a simple one,
in which we're counting the number
of nodes in the network.
So the first line of code simply matches
all of the nodes with the label MyNode and
it returns a count of those nodes.
So let's look at the results.
The results are very simple,
the value of eleven.
And we can visually confirm this
by inspecting the graph itself and
see it has 11 nodes and
we can see that up here.
The next query is almost as simple,
we want to count the number of edges.
Now, first thing to keep in mind
is in order to count edges,
we also need to declare nodes that
are associated with those edges.
So this first line of codes
includes a declaration
of the nodes associated with the edges.
Here we're identifying
with thevariable r and
then we're returning
a count of those edges.
So let's take a look in Neo4j and the
results of this query are a value of 14.
And once again we can confirm this
visually by looking at our network and
counting the number of edges.
The next query involves finding all
of the leaf nodes in the network.
Now as you may remember
from a previous lecture,
leaf nodes are defined as those
nodes which have no outgoing edges.
Notice that we're returning the node
represented by the variable M,
which is the target node in this query.
So here we're matching all nodes
associated with edges having the label two
and we want to place
a constraint on those nodes,
such that they have no outgoing edges.
And then we return all those nodes.
So let's take a look at the results.
We're going to see a single node returned,
the node with the label p.
And if we inspect our graph, we can
see over here on the right the node p,
and sure enough it has no outgoing edges,
only one incoming edge.
The next query is also similar,
we're looking for
root nodes instead of leaf notes.
And as you may also remember,
root nodes are defined as a node
which has no incoming edges.
You may notice that this segment of
the first line of code is sort of a mirror
image of the same segment in the first
line of code from the previous query.
We also want to place the constraint
on the nodes that we want to return
by specifying that they can
have no incoming edges.
And then, we return all of those nodes
When we look at our results in Neo4j.
Once again,
we see we only get a single node
return it's the node with the label H.
And if we inspect our graph,
we see over here the node H and
sure enough it has no incoming edges.
Only a single outgoing edge which
means it's a root node of the network.
The next query can be described
as a pattern matching query.
We're looking for a pattern that
we're describing as triangles.
This is a pattern that's
a bit more complex than
the patterns we've been looking for
in our previous queries.
A triangle can also be described as a
three cycle, consisting of three nodes and
three edges where the beginning and
end node are the same.
So here we're matching a node A which
goes through an edge to node B
which goes through a second
edge to a second node C and
through a third edge back
to the original node A.
And then we return all of those notes.
Let's look at our results.
And here we see we have five
distinct nodes returned.
And we have two triangles or
two three cycles.
From D to E to G and from D to C to B.
Finally the last query we're going
to execute with this data set,
is going to explore the neighborhood
of a particular node.
In this case, the node with the label d.
And we're going to be looking for
what we're calling second neighbors of D.
This means nodes that
are two nodes away from d.
So the first line of code matches
all nodes that are two nodes away
from a specific node.
And then the second line of codes
specifies the actual node that we
we want to consider by constraining
its name to have the label d,
and then we return those nodes.
And here we're using the command distinct
because we want to make sure that we
don't return any duplicate nodes.
All of our nodes must be unique.
So let's look at the results.
And here we have a network that
consists of nine nodes and 11 edges and
we can see that each node is
two nodes away from the node D.
Some nodes appear to be only one
node away from the node D but
we can get to those nodes indirectly
through another node, which means that
they're not only a first neighbor but
they're also a second neighbor.
So we encourage you to play
around with these queries,
and make minor changes with them,
and see what the results might be.